Here are my 4 P's to successful presentations: Plan,
prepare, practice, and present.
Now the first two relate to writing the presentation.
In other words, in this module on know your ABC's.
The second two relate to delivering your presentation.
It's the verbal part.
You're practicing and presenting.
Now we will cover those two in detail in the next module called Let's Talk.
Now let's move on to how you're going to plan and prepare
your presentations for your success.
So let's get organized and do the preliminary planning of your presentation.
First, have the outcome in mind before you start writing your presentation.
You should know exactly what you want to accomplish.
If you were given a topic or assignment from your management,
review it and be sure you fully understand it before you begin the planning.
Who is your audience?
Know your audience.
What they may expect from the presentation.
Who are you about to talk to?
Maybe who you thought would be there is not and maybe others have shown up.
Always be prepared to adapt.
As long as the core message is in your presentation,
you can use your words to evolve or adapt to
re-engineer your message if need be.
Next, research your topic.
It's important to spend enough time collecting and confirming information,
in order to speak with confidence and knowledge and let me tell you,
confidence is very important.
More on that in the verbal module.
Organize the main points in the most appropriate order
for the topic you're presenting.
Avoid writing complete sentences or paragraphs and prepare note cards
to help you elaborate on the information presented.
Align your presentation with their strategic interests or objectives in mind,
so they can relate.
Determine your delivery medium.
I love PowerPoint.
I'd suggest you use PowerPoint, but there are many other tools as well.
You decide what might be the best for your situation.
But of course, you need to allow to display text,
maybe movies, videos, and graphics in slide form,
of course.
Okay, now that we have the planning process in place,
let's talk about how we want to prepare to build up on
our contents of the presentation.
Now let's prepare the content.
Open with something surprising or intriguing,
something that will get your audience to sit up and take notice.
Maybe it's a catchy quotation or statistic or
something that might even be humorous,
but choose wisely and you will have their attention.
You could even have a hook.
Like, the best writing,
the best presentations should always engage
audiences early and then rill them in.
Ensure they understand why they are there and what outcome is expected of them.
Remember, you are presenting for a reason,
keep that in mind,
and focus each slide's content and your delivery on your expected outcome.
Sometimes this can be done with an agenda,
but I recommend devoting a slide or two to exactly what you want or
need from them in the presentation This comes early in the deck and
should be revisited at the end of the presentation to get their
feedback from the audience.
Minimize the number of slides.
To maintain a clear message and to keep your audience attentive and interested,
keep the number of slides in your presentation to a minimum,
just what you need to get your job done.
Write a script.
I used this for this course in and of itself.
A little planning goes a long way.
Most presentations are written in Power Point or some other
presentation tool without any sort of rhyme or reason.
I think that's kind of backwards.
Since the point of your slides is to illustrate and expand
what you are going to say to your audience,
you should know what you intend to say and then figure out how
you want to visualize it with the slides.
Make sure you write out or at least outline your presentation
before trying to put together the slides.
And make sure your script follows good storytelling conventions, if you will.
Give it a beginning, a middle,
and an end and have a clear story that builds toward some sort of outcome.
Make your audience appreciate each slide but be anxious maybe
to find out what's next and when possible,
leave them wanting more.
Display one thing at a time.
Please!
At any given moment,
what should be on the screen is the thing you're talking about.
Your audience will almost instantly read every slide as soon as it's displayed.
If you have the next three or four points you plan to make up there,
they'll be three or four steps ahead of you,
waiting for you to catch up rather than listening with
interest to the points you're trying to make.
So plan your presentation with just one new point is
displayed at any given moment.
Bullet points can be revealed one at a time as you reach them.
Charts can be put on the next slide to be referenced when
you get to the data the chart displays.
Your job as presenter is to control the flow of information so
that you and your audience stay in sync and your maximizing the
conveyance of information to them.
No paragraphs, ever.
Need I even say this?
Well, yes.
I see it all the time.
Where most presentations fail is that their author is convinced they are
producing some kind of stand-alone document for all time.
They put everything they want onto those slides in big, chunky blocks of text.
Well, you've just killed a roomful of people and maybe caused terminal boredom.
Your slides are the illustrations for your presentation,
not the presentation itself.
They should underline and reinforce what you're
saying as you give the presentation.
Save the paragraphs of text for your script maybe.
Power Point and other tools and software have functions to display notes onto
the presenter's screen that don't get sent to the projector,
or you can use note cards, a separate Word processor document,
or just from memory.
I think memory is the best.
In other words, plan and prepare.
So just don't put it on the screen, but if you do for some reason,
don't stand with your back to the audience and read it from the screen.
At least look them in the eye and present.
Okay, and lastly of course, when you're preparing your content,
you are following the 5 C's: clear, concise,
courteous, consistent, and compelling, and you will be successful.
Here are a few more items that I'd like you to think
about in preparing your content.
Pay attention to design.
Power Point and other presentation packages offer all sorts of
ways to visually present things on the screen.
Fades and swipes and flashing text and all these things
that actually may be a bit annoying,
but they're really all too easy to insert with just a few mouse clicks.
So maybe avoid the temptation and don't dress up your pages
too much; keep them simple and basic.
Next, avoid clutter.
Less is more.
No clutter and keep it simple.
A headline, a few bullet points, maybe an image or two,
anything more than that and you risk losing your audience as
they sort it all out or get distracted.
And use images appropriately.
Again, whatever that might mean for you.
There are kind of two schools of thought here about images and presentations.
Some say they add visual interest and keep you interested and
engaged and others say images are just unnecessary distractions
and both arguments might be true, so in this case,
the best option is to split the difference.
Use images only when they add important information or
make an abstract point more concrete.
Post questions in your content.
Questions arouse interest, peak curiosity, and engage your audience.
They make them think a little bit, so ask them.
Build tension or interest by posing a question and let your audience stew for
a moment before moving to the next slide with the answer.
Maybe quiz their knowledge and show them how little they know,
and if appropriate,
engage a little Q&A with your audience with you asking questions.
So the questions would be on the slide.
What do you think about this?
How would you handle that?
Etc.
And maybe the next bullet or the next slide would
answer or address the question.
Go off road.
As with anything else,
there are times when each of these rules or any rule you know won't apply.
These are general rules of thumb that I'm giving you.
If you know there is a good reason to break a rule, just go ahead and do it.
It's perfectly acceptable. Remember, you're trying to make a point for your expected outcome.